Yes, Ms. Quyen, greetings to all of you. Welcome
back to the Q&A program
with Buddhist devotee Pham Thi Yen,
Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan Quan, head of the
Golden Club, practicing Luc Hoa calcium, and
acting. Hello, Ms. Yen. In Can Tho, Tet is
approaching, and household matters are a source of
worry for many people.
Today, I would like to send
you a question from a reader who sent it
to the program: "Hello, Ms. Yen. My husband and
I have just moved out on our own. This is our first Tet.
I understand that choosing someone to be the
first visitor of the year is important because
their peaceful energy field will
bring happiness to the family.
Should we choose someone whose age is compatible with
my husband's, or should it be compatible with both of
our ages? Thank you, Ms. Yen."
Greetings to all of you. That
's right, the concept of the
first visitor of the year
has become a custom and tradition of the
Vietnamese people.
Mr. Hiep, do you remember how, before we
knew about Buddhism, we used to make
appointments?  The first person to enter the house was someone chosen beforehand.
After she got married,
and she didn't follow this custom,
nor did she place much importance on
music, she would open the door every year. For all
those years, whenever she opened the door, there would always
be a grandchild who would be the first to
enter the house. It was her older sister who had crossed
the river (referring to the first person to enter the house). She
found it quite normal, though each year was
different. It was
something
very important to her.
She noticed that many people took
this very seriously, especially when she was little. Her
mother would tell her not to go to anyone's house,
absolutely not to go to anyone's house. Children were
only allowed to call each other by
name, and even that was considered taboo. No, no, no, not
allowed to call each other by name. They only
allowed to call each other
by name, not even on the morning of the first day of the new year.
She didn't even mention the moment of midnight. The
old folks in the neighborhood would always arrange for
someone to be the first to enter their house beforehand.
Usually, the elders would choose
someone based on their personality.  First of all, it's best to have someone with good
intentions to be the first to enter your house on New Year's Day.
This must have some kind of
spiritual significance for it to
become a tradition. To
say it's not
completely effective is to say it hasn't
become a tradition. From
this, I'll add a little
example: there are people who go out and
say, "If you meet
this person, you can't lock the door," or "If you meet that
person, you ca
n't lock the door," or "If you meet that person, you can't lock the door," or "If you meet that person, you can't lock the door," or "If you meet that person, you can lock the door," or "If you meet that person, you ca
n't lock the door," or "If you meet that person, you can lock the
door," or "If you meet that person, you can lock the door," or "You ...
The person who first enters
your house doesn't come to carry the
karma from your home. For example, from the moment before New Year's Eve
until past lives, if you've done
anything unwholesome, then the person who comes to
your house is just
coming to wish you a Happy New Year. If you wish them a Happy
New Year, it only adds a few good intentions.
How can they
possibly carry all the karma for your house?
So, if the purpose of the first-footing is to bring good
luck, then the person who comes to your house doesn't carry the karma for
your house. If it's just for
your own good fortune, then no
one would take the bath after the house is finished. That's the natural side,
but the consequences are there. And
when you meet someone who brings good luck, or someone who opens
your business with bad luck, that
person's luck for that day means that you
won't be able to sell anything that day.
You feel that
this person came to you, and there are
people whose luck doesn't bring
you sales that day, or people who are lucky.  Even with the
opening ceremony,
I still couldn't sell anything. And
I even have to consider the karmic connections
of those who come to be the first to
enter my house on New Year's Day. It has to be natural; if there's any pre-arrangement, it's strange. It's not about intuition; it's not like that. It's about pre-
arranging for someone to come and be the first to enter my house on New Year's Day.
That's wrong because
that person coming to my house isn't
karma for my family. That's a different
perspective; it's
not correct or accurate according to the law of cause and
effect. You just have to be the first to
enter your house on New Year's Day. If
someone comes to be the first to enter your house on New Year's Day,
how do you make sure they have the most luck?
There's this saying: "If someone comes to my house, I'll still give them a
piece of candy. I can't give them a
small river of water all year round." Let's
see if that perspective is correct or not.
That perspective is partly right and
humorous because there's a reason why: "If you give
alms, you'll have blessings. Now, if
I come and give alms to you, I'll have to give you a
blessing tree. Whether it's giving a smile or
not..."  "Uncle, please drink a cup of water for me, for
good luck with the speakers, Long. People
also receive the alms; it's
because we give alms and receive blessings. But if we give
alms and
they don't accept them, well, it does
n't mean we lose
merit. You'll see that this perspective
isn't quite right. It's because if we
have a charitable heart, we already have blessings. Whether
they accept or not,
we still benefit
as if they did. Even if they
don't accept, we still receive
blessings. So, if we have a heart that directs
towards giving alms, it's very good.
But regarding the
issue of 'uncle,' if you don't use it for my family,
then that's a matter of
perspective, not just
witnessing it. If we have a preconceived notion, it's not good for
Buddhists because we can't easily attain enlightenment
if we have a fixed viewpoint. If we have a fixed perspective, we'll have to
abandon that perspective. So, we'll
apply that giving brings peace and
happiness. That's truly the case."  At the beginning of the
year, our family practices the Dharma of giving, which is
very good. On New Year's
Eve, we go to worship Buddha and make offerings to the
Three Jewels to dedicate the
merit to our ancestors. That's giving to our family for sustenance, a blessing. Furthermore,
we also give New Year's greetings to our
parents. That's also a
very good act of filial piety, which is beneficial to our mindset. That's
all. I can add
that I will make a vow to release animals into the wild, to
do many good deeds, and I make a vow
at that very moment of New Year's Eve so that it will
bring me much happiness. I
vow that this year I
will diligently study and practice Buddhism, abandon evil and do
good to generate blessings. I will be
more diligent in showing filial piety,
more diligent in giving alms and releasing animals, and
more diligent in observing precepts and doing my duties for my family. I will be happier because of this
vow I made at this very
moment of New Year's Eve.
For those who don't know about
Buddhism or these moments,
we should also learn a little more.
We still maintain the idea of ​​bestowing
blessings upon the family, that
whoever comes to our house first will be the first person
we welcome. We will make them happy and
joyful, and they will
receive the best things we have to offer. We'll offer the best food, the most delicious
tea, the kindest words, wishing
them good health and success in
all their endeavors. Then we'll
offer the most precious food to our
guests. That way, we
've accumulated merit through charity. Because my
father was born in a blessed year, who the first person to arrive at our
house is doesn't matter; what
matters is whether our heart is giving to
those who come to us. If we continue to give
to those who come to us, blessings
will arise. Above all, it's not
just about giving to the first person; if we give to everyone
who comes to our house,
our blessings will gradually increase. So, whether it's just
one person who comes to our house or
a whole group,
we should welcome them.  Be kind and
sincere, and
you will receive blessings. Otherwise,
sometimes choosing someone to be the first visitor to your house on New Year's Eve can
bring you a lot of bad luck.
For example, you might say, "
I'm choosing someone to be the first visitor, but if I tell
my father that their age is
incompatible with my mother's, and my mother's age is also incompatible with theirs, I'll get
angry. 'Dad and Mom, don't come to my house on New Year's Eve!'
Remembering you,
Long, makes me feel so emotional.
That will
bring bad luck. That will create negative karma, and the children will be
unfilial, and their business won't
prosper because filial piety is what gives rise to respect.
That's the danger of
this situation. Or, if you
tell your siblings, 'This year, you're
different from me, so
don't come to my house. You have to come on the afternoon of the first
day of the new year.'
That's a sign of losing affection and
loyalty. Then you'll also experience
misfortune, and your friends
or someone else will be hurt."
Meaningless acts of kindness that don't help you
will lead to encountering
unkind people who restrict you and
oppress you this year. These are negative
consequences arising
from your flawed perspective. Your viewpoint is
incorrect. Therefore, I
hope we can learn
from the ancient teachings of karma, understanding that
blessings come from giving, showing compassion, and
respecting the meaning of things during Tet (Lunar New Year).
Buddhist practitioners
should practice virtuous deeds, releasing animals, chanting scriptures, and
making vows to do good and avoid
evil. This will generate more blessings
and bring Buddha's protection throughout the
year. Accumulating much merit and
blessings will bring peace and happiness to your heart. So,
we should choose someone to be the first
visitor to our house by infusing
themselves with the fragrance of
wisdom, so that we and
everyone else can be happy and joyful. That should
resolve your issue regarding choosing a first
visitor for your house this year,
Ms. Quyen. Wishing you and your family a
happy new year!
May you all find peace and happiness in the new year. Wishing you all
peace and diligent practice.
Thank you, teacher, for participating in today's program.
Greetings to all of you.
See you again in
future programs.